Add Enphase specific debug and diagnostic details (#31819)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/enphase_envoy.markdown

[^3]: Only applies when using  Envoy S Metered / IQ Gateway Metered with installed and configured current transformers (<abbr title="current transformers">CT</abbr>).

There are no readily available battery energy sensors for use with the `Home Battery storage`. You can consider using the Encharge  `real_power_mw` entity as an input to Riemann integrators for charge (negative) or discharge (positive) values. As the [polling interval](#polling-interval) is 1 minute, these may be off though.

## Debug logs and diagnostics

This integration provides debug log and diagnostics report as described in the [Home Assistant troubleshooting pages](/docs/configuration/troubleshooting/#debug-logs-and-diagnostics).

### Debug log

> When this integration is loaded it will scan the Envoy / IQ Gateway for available features and configure these as needed. Following this initial scan, only data for the found features is collected. If you expect features to show and these are not shown, reload the integration while debug logging is enabled (Mind that some are disabled by default and should be enabled by you first for them to show). In this way the debug log includes the initial full scan to assist with analyzing any missing features. If you experience intermitting issues during use of the integration this reload is not needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When this integration is loaded, it will scan the Envoy / IQ Gateway for available features and configure these as needed. Following this initial scan, only data for the found features is collected. If you're expecting features to show but they are not shown, reload the integration while debug logging is enabled. Some features are disabled by default, and you need to enable them if you want them to show. In this way, the debug log includes the initial full scan to assist with analyzing any missing features. If you experience intermittent issues during use of the integration this reload is not needed.
```

> When this integration is loaded, it will scan the Envoy / IQ Gateway for available features and configure these as needed. Following this initial scan, only data for the found features is collected. If you're expecting features to show but they are not shown, reload the integration while debug logging is enabled. Some features are disabled by default, and you need to enable them if you want them to show. In this way, the debug log includes the initial full scan to assist with analyzing any missing features. If you experience intermittent issues during use of the integration this reload is not needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When this integration is loaded, it will scan the Envoy / IQ Gateway for available features and configure these as needed. Following this initial scan, only data for the found features is collected. If you're expecting features to show but they are not shown, reload the integration while debug logging is enabled. Some features are disabled by default, and you need to enable them if you want them to show. In this way, the debug log includes the initial full scan to assist with analyzing any missing features. If you experience intermittent issues during use of the integration this reload is not needed.
```
I do not understand the last sentence. What does having issues to do with the reload?

Author: The reload is only needed to log the data of the first inspection of the device. If the device is having issues like every other day, the reload doesn't add more information. In this case you only want to use the debug to capture these intermittent issues happening, simply start it and wait without reloading the integration.

Reviewer: I see. Thank you for specifying. Maybe you can add some of this information in the text.

Author: Thanks for the review and suggestion, I've reworded that paragraph to make more clear.

> The debug log will show all communication with the Envoy / IQ Gateway. Lines starting with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The debug log will show all communication with the Envoy / IQ Gateway. Lines starting with entities are log entries for the integration:
```

```txt
2024-03-07 11:20:11.897 DEBUG (MainThread) [homeassistant.components.enphase_envoy
2024-03-07 11:20:11.898 DEBUG (MainThread) [pyenphase.envoy
```

> are log entries for the integration. Below a typical data request / reply sequence in the log file. These lines will contain the data details received from the Envoy / IQ Gateway.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below a typical data request / reply sequence in the log file. These lines will contain the data details received from the Envoy / IQ Gateway.
```

```txt
... [pyenphase.envoy] Requesting https://192.168.1.2/ivp/meters with timeout ...
... [pyenphase.envoy] Request reply from https://192.168.1.2/ivp/meters status 200:...
```

The end of a collection cycle is marked by:

```txt
... [homeassistant.components.enphase_envoy.coordinator] Finished fetching Envoy 123456 data in 1.234 seconds (success: True)
```

### Diagnostics

The diagnostics file is a JSON file and includes a `data` section with the details for this integration. The file can be viewed with any text editor[^4]. The data section has 5 major subsections which reflects how the integration is setup and data is used. Below the 5 subsections, each collapsed.

> [^4]: Use of some viewer that is JSON aware is not required but makes inspecting the file easier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[^4]: Use of a JSON-aware viewer is not required but makes inspecting the file easier.
```

```JSON
  "data": {
    "config_entry": { ...
    },
    "envoy_properties": { ...
    },
    "raw_data": { ...
    },
    "envoy_model_data": { ...
    },
    "envoy_entities_by_device": [ ...
    ]
  }
}    
```

#### Config entry

Shows the integration configuration created when the integration was added.

#### Envoy properties

> Shows the conclusions of the initial data scan and what features where identified, including the detected firmware version in the Envoy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Shows the conclusions of the initial data scan and what features were identified, including the detected firmware version in the Envoy.
```

#### Raw data

> Shows the data collected from the Envoy during the last data scan when the diagnostic report was created. When in doubt about data shown in the dashboards consult this section to find the raw data send by the Envoy. The integration is not modifying this data, it's just providing the data to the entities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Shows the data collected from the Envoy during the last data scan when the diagnostic report was created. If in doubt about data shown in the dashboards, consult this section to find the raw data sent by the Envoy. The integration is not modifying this data, it's just providing the data to the entities.
```

#### Envoy model data

> Shows the data of the Envoy extracted from the raw_data into Envoy class data used by the HA Integration. This is a subset of the full raw dataset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Shows the data of the Envoy extracted from the raw_data into Envoy class data used by the Home Assistant integration. This is a subset of the full raw dataset.
```

> #### Envoy Entities by device

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Envoy entities by device
```

[^3]: Only applies when using  Envoy S Metered / IQ Gateway Metered with installed and configured current transformers (<abbr title="current transformers">CT</abbr>).

There are no readily available battery energy sensors for use with the `Home Battery storage`. You can consider using the Encharge  `real_power_mw` entity as an input to Riemann integrators for charge (negative) or discharge (positive) values. As the [polling interval](#polling-interval) is 1 minute, these may be off though.

## Debug logs and diagnostics

This integration provides debug log and diagnostics report as described in the [Home Assistant troubleshooting pages](/docs/configuration/troubleshooting/#debug-logs-and-diagnostics).

### Debug log

> When experiencing issues during use of the integration, enable the debug log for the Envoy / IQ Gateway. This will add details on the data collections to the Home Assistant log file. Leave the debug log enabled long enough to capture occurrence of the issue. If the issue is intermittent this may take a while and it may grow the log file quite a bit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When experiencing issues during the use of the integration, enable the debug log for the Envoy / IQ Gateway. This will add details on the data collection to the Home Assistant log file. Leave the debug log enabled long enough to capture the occurrence of the issue. If the issue is intermittent, this may take a while and it may grow the log file quite a bit.
```
